For this task, please draft an email to the client.

Assess the legal situation under the GDPR.
Inform the client about possible notification obligations: Who has to be notified? Outline the conditions for a notification obligation and the required content of such a notification.
Where applicable, inform the client about further obligations or risks arising from violation of notification obligations.

Your email needs to be thorough, outlining the law around notification obligations under the GDPR. We suggest you write approx. 3,000 words and then edit the email down to approx. 1,000 words. This task may take you between 2 - 3 hours to complete.

Here are some resources to help you
There is a lot of information online at your disposal around the GDPR standards. For instance:

GDPR Information
Guide to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
You may wish to follow the below structure when drafting your email to the client:

1. Briefly summarise the client's request and confirm whether or not there is a notification obligation and if so, to whom

2. Summarise the law around the notification obligation(s) (you may wish to refer to Art. 33 para 1 s. 1 of the GDPR).

NB: if there is more than one notification obligation, you may wish to repeat sections 2 – 2d for each obligation

2a. Define the key terms referred to in the law (e.g., what is "controller" defined as, what does "processing" mean in law)

2b. Confirm if the leak constitutes a personal data breach and what the law defines this as

2c. If there is a notification obligation, summarise what this constitutes (e.g. timeframes)

2d. If relevant, you may wish to include a section on Exemptions

3. If there is more than one notification obligation, you should continue as per the outline above (you may wish to refer to Art. 34 para 1 GDPR) 

4. Legal Enforcement: outline to the client what the ramifications are in the event of a violation of a notification obligation

Don't forget to consider how you sign off to the client.
