Please prepare a note of preliminary advice where you go through the various defensive arguments Shikari may use to resist Ludens' Claims. You may structure the note as follows: 

Foreword:

Please briefly recap what the note is about and provide a very high-level summary of the main facts.

1 - the occurrence of a data breach
2 - the theft from the servers hosting Ludens' data
3 - the kind of data that Shikari stored on behalf of Ludens
4 - Ludens' claims

Executive summary:

Please present an executive summary at the beginning of the note summarising your arguments/findings.

Tip: draft the 'Executive Summary' once you have completed the full 'Defensive strategy' section below.

Defensive strategy:

For each claim, please:

Summarise the grounds on which the claim relies; 
Outline potential arguments rebutting the claim; and
Identify next steps, i.e. what actions Shikari and/or your firm need to take to prepare for litigation. Consider whether you have all the necessary information and request any additional documents required to establish the facts and legal obligations.

Your note should be between 1,000 - 2,000 words in length.

Here are some resources to help you
Here are some useful tips on preparing a note of preliminary advice:

When clients seek preliminary advice they usually appreciate short advice in the form of bullet points or a brief email (Be careful: 'short' does not mean 'vague' or 'incomplete'!)
They do understand, however, that – especially at a very preliminary stage – you may not have all the necessary background information about the case and therefore expect guidance from you on how to navigate the uncertainties of a dispute which, at the outset, seems to be a complex, time-consuming and expensive (from all standpoints) head-scratcher. So, do ask questions!
It is more than legitimate to seek documents (e.g. contracts between the parties), background information (e.g. about how the incident happened, what are the security measures Shikari put in place to prevent similar incidents) and clarifications you deem necessary to understand the situation

Here are some useful glossary terms to assist you with the task:

Trade secret: Information (including know-how) that has economic value as a result of being kept secret. Trade secret is afforded protection unless information has become or subsequently becomes publicly available as a result of the disclosing party's conduct.

Tip: instructions refer to "documents listing the patents protecting Ludens' diagnostic tools:" after a period of time following a request for patent grant with the competent patent office, patent files are published (so it may be difficult for Ludens to claim that disclosure of any published patent files caused damages to them). 

Personal Data: "Any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (‘data subject’)" (Art. 4 GDPR).

Data controller: "Natural or legal person … which … determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data" (Art. 4 GDPR). Therefore, anonymised or aggregated data is not personal data (and therefore is not subject to data privacy laws). 

Data processor: "Natural or legal person … which processes personal data on behalf of the controller" (Art. 4 GDPR). Pursuant to Art. 28 GDPR, the data processor processes data in accordance with the instructions provided by the data controller. 

Data storage: Pursuant to Art. 5(1)(f) GDPR, controllers must take "appropriate technical and organisational measures against unauthorised or unlawful processing of personal data and against accidental loss or destruction of, and damage to, personal data, to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk." 

Tip: If data stored on Shikari's servers are anonymised and aggregated, then there is an argument to say that Shikari is not liable for any breach of data privacy laws (e.g. GDPR), because anonymised data is not personal data.

However, the data could still qualify as Commercial Know-How and therefore be covered by IP law protection (trade secret, see above), if Ludens shows that it implemented sufficient security measures to prevent that dataset from being disclosed.

On the other hand, if the health data is deemed to be personal data (e.g. because the data is not fully anonymised, but only pseudo-anonymised), the question becomes: who is the data controller and who is the data processor in relation to the patients' health data? 

The instructions suggest that health data is collected and processed in the interest of Ludens, as its business relies on the subsequent sale of the data to third party buyers like hospitals and research entities. This is a strong argument in favour of Ludens being the data controller. So, if Shikari is the data processor, it is likely that: 

(i) Shikari stored that data on behalf of, and under the instructions of Ludens, therefore unauthorised disclosure may in principle be attributed to the procedures Ludens asked Shikari to implement. In any event, it is advisable to ask Mr Shaddix to provide any agreements covering data processing or agreements whereby Ludens entrusted Shikari as the data processor; 

(ii) Shikari is not (at least) directly liable vis-à-vis the individual patients, so Ludens may be able to hold Shikari liable for any damages the data incident caused to the individuals. 
